The map is gonna have generators.

These generators will fire flying essences after a certain amount of time.
  That unit of time will be constant for a generator over time, but can vary among distinct generators.
  Inverse to the frequency is how much an flying essence lasts.

Units can build different mechanisms to transform those flying essences in other type of essences.



Spark essence:
  It changes direction randomly. When it is <=3 to a unit it follows and damages it.

Thunder essence:
  It flies, but when it passes over a unit it creates a thunder that damages the unit.
  I should encourage this spell to be casted from high places.
    For instance, in the first frame it has to be 1 separeted from the ground, then 2, then 3, and so on.
    If the ground isn't far enough below, the thunder will be triggered, even if there was no unit beneath.

Spin essence:
  It follows a wall with the left or right hand rule.
  Depending on what side got into contact with a wall first.
    If it gets into contact with 2 walls at both sides at the same time, it ignores those walls.





If a place gets too deadly, how are units gonna get in it???
  how to stop enemies and let allays move in???
Note: deadly places hard to colonize are cool!

Maybe, I could cast a shield that renders you invulnerable to the spells.
I don't like it much though, it is just too easy... 
  it makes purposeless to try to create a device that would deactivate the fortress defenses



Buildable structures:

accumulator:
  as it gets hit by energy it stucks up food that the units can consume

repulsor:
  desvia la energia

thunder creator

spark creator

compuerta and

note that a repulsor can be used as a compuerta or

key setter
  sets the key of the unit, the unit will produce energy of that key and its filters will be of that key 

key filter







A computer is useless if it doesn't have an input
The most importat thing to measure is units.
  whether a unit passes a certain tile
  or whether a unit gets close to a certain area
    for instance to close a wall






una bola de fuego que salo por un pasillo nunca va a alcanzar a la gente que sale pero si a la que entra
  eso esta bueno

podria implementar "onda de choque" que te empija uno hacia afuera
si la intercalo con un activador normal,
  puedo activar un lanzador de bolas de fuego
  empujarlo uno hacia afuera
  y repetir, para cubrir una superficie




UN ASPECTO IMPORTANTE
  COMO VAN A SER LAS UNIDAD LO SUFICIENTEMENTE INTELIGENTES PARA ESPERAR QUE UN MECANISMO SE EJECUTE???
     talves las unidades tienen que quedar inmoviles mientras una energia q castiaron se mueve, incluse si esa energia se transforma en otra
